MCIS6273 Data Mining (Prof. Maull) / Fall 2021 / HW2a
This assignment is worth up to 5 POINTS to your grade total if you complete it on time.
Points Possible Due Date Time Commitment (estimated)
5 Wednesday, October 15 @ Midnight up to 3 hours
• GRADING: Grading will be aligned with the completeness of the objectives.
• INDEPENDENT WORK: Copying, cheating, plagiarism and academic dishonesty are not tolerated by
University or course policy. Please see the syllabus for the full departmental and University statement on
the academic code of honor.
OBJECTIVES
• Learn about the new data economy through Ocean Protocol and how Blockchain is fueling innovation in the
data space
WHAT TO TURN IN
You are being encouraged to turn the assignment in using the provided Jupyter Notebook. To do so, make a
directory in your Lab environment called homework/hw2. Put all of your files in that directory.
Then zip that directory, rename it with your name as the first part of the filename (e.g. maull_hw2_files.tar.gz),
then download it to your local machine, then upload the .tar.gz to Blackboard.
If you do not know how to do this, please ask, or visit one of the many tutorials out there on the basics of using in
Linux.
If you choose not to use the provided notebook, you will still need to turn in a .ipynb Jupyter Notebook and
corresponding files according to the instructions in this homework.
ASSIGNMENT TASKS
(20%) Learn about the new data economy through Ocean Protocol and how Blockchain is fueling
innovation in the data space
You have no doubt heard the phrase “Data is the new oil”, which goes back to 2006, when British data scientist
and mathematician Clive Humby first coined the phrase.
For an interesing chronology of the phrase over the past 15 years or so, please read the follow Medium.com post:
• “Data is the New Oil” — A Ludicrous Proposition by Michael Haupt
You can decide for yourself, after some contemplation, whether the “privatization” of data is right or wrong, and
what one might do about it if they choose to.
Nonetheless, the parallels to oil, and the oil boom at the turn of the 20th century – which profoundly changed
our relationship with energy and quite literally fueled innovation on a scale that humanity has never seen – are
interesting. Data, however, is not a finite resource, and the “ownership” of data is quite different than that of oil
(however controversial that may be). What should be obvious is that producing data and “enriching it” (adding
“value”) are two different things, and “value” is a term that requires a context.
Nonetheless, we are at an interesting point in the big data, data mining and data science conversation about what
to do with and how to treat all the data now being produce, particularly as the kind of data that is becoming
interesting to companies is increasingly personal (i.e. personal health data) and quite possibly being put to use in
contexts we have no transparency or control over.
1
Blockchain technologies are rapidly become the de facto platforms for data-related transactions, and interesting
work is being done to use these distributed digital ledgers as data exchange platforms. Even more work is being
done to bring “data ownership” to a new level on digital marketplaces and the “Internet of Value” or IoV (see also
this 2017 writeup on the IoV by Ripple) building the “new data economy”.
You will be listening to a podcast on this subject involving the Ocean Protocol and its founder Bruce Pon. You
will listen the almost 43 minute podcast from The Crypto Conversation Podcast on Brave New Coin.
• “Data is the new oil - Ocean Protocol is building the data economy” - October 28, 2020 Podcast with Bruce
Pon;
• download the mp3 file directly.
§ Listen to the entire podcast and answer the questions below:
1. What was the original idea that Pon tried in 2013?

    **Answer: The original was ascribe. ascribe.io aimed to put intellectual property on the blockchain and make digital                  collectibles scarce but it dint work because it dint have the decentralized metadata store like filecoin,                    storage.etc
    
2. Who (or what) did Pon say was the “consumer” of Blockchain and big data? How does this relate to “data mining”?

   **Answer:  AI was the “consumer” of Blockchain and big data. By the use of Source of truth in real time you could mine                that data for insights. BigchainDB combined the best of blockchains with databases, turning data into                        tradable assets. 

3. Who does Pon say are the gatekeepers of the current “data economy”? How does Ocean Protocol address this?

    **Answer:Pon says the gatekeepers already exist. That is the Internet platforms like 10 cent, alibaba, baidu, fang,                  facebook,amazon, apple,microsoft, google, Aggregators like bloomberg and reuters, axios or axiom collect data                or sell data.
    
              * "Ocean Protocol" address  that any economic value that can be created by the use of data and data systems                    and software stuffs all around us worth trillions. Data can be used multiple times potentially as valuble                    as land because its non-rival. With data you can aggregate it, sort it, invest money, etc it never loses                    its value. So we believe that as the world goes more digital the potentially to turn the data more valuble                  is immense and make a equitable framework for everyone.

4. How does Pon suggest data might be “securitized” over Ocean Protocol? Use the example he gives directly.

    **Answer: Pon suggest that data might be "securitized" over Ocean Protocol by the use of "DeFi". DeFi is critical to                  the success of Ocean Protocol. One of the main reasons why data isn’t shared aside from the safety and                      privacy reasons is that until now, the pricing for data hasn’t been established well. There hasn’t been                      enough data flowing, being shared and sold to provide a proper price signal. DeFi allows data to be                          monetized, securitized, and collateralized  so that the tools of the financial system can be applied to a new                asset class. DeFi is a path to kickstart the Data Economy, in all its potential.
    
5. What are the four landscape users (or targets) of Ocean Protocol
   
   **Answer: The four landscape users (or targets) of Ocean Protocol are 
   
                                  * Developers
                                  * Enterprice 
                                  * Users
                                  * Crypto Native
    
6. What example does he give of a liquid dataset that might have tremendous value in a variety of current and future contexts relating to our world?

    **Answer: Pon values the term Data lego's something thats on global basis as a liquid dataset that is "Atmospheric                    data". For example, if we have a temperature data anybody can access where people are incentivized to keep it                fresher to keep updating the inormation to provide data in places that are more remote, so that we can have a                complete view. Its easy to handle on the atmospheric temperature and atmospheric conditions for the climate                  researchers for a better idea of how global warming is affecting us. like wise  
    * Economic system which does not exist today.
    * carbon token knowing of data in systems so people understands more way to take out carbon from air all are the future       contexts relating to our world 

7. What does Pon predict the crypto marketplace will look like in 10 years?

    **Answer: Hundred billion dollar companies built on top of crypto itself will still be decentralized but companies like                for instance coinbase, binance there's couple of data companies probably worth billions similar to the size                  of internet as the blockchain has been global.
    
8. After consuming this podcast, please list your reaction to it in a short paragraph of at a minimum of three complete sentences. Address what you already know about crypto and the data economy as well as the things that you learned that were new knowledge. You may also address whether you agree or disagree with Pon’s positions, especially how it relates to Ocean Protocol and cryptocurrencies, in general, becoming a great equalizer. You can also include any personal experiences you have with the technology.


    **Answer: The Pod cast on Ocean Protocol was very useful. It gave the knowledge of bitcoin, datasets,    blockchain,BigchainDB, data economy, etc. All these terms were new to me. But after hearing the pod cast and I, personally did some research before doing the assignment to gain knowledge on bitcoin and how it works, how data are been transfered and its quit interesting subject and my little side hustle evolves me to build the career in data science field. It was a great and valuble knowledge shared by Bruce Pon of his journey with Ocean Protocol.     
    I Agree, with Pon’s positions, especially how it relates to Ocean Protocol and cryptocurrencies, in general, becoming a great equalizer. This generation is moving very fast, in this digital world everything people requires is more digitialized and they need data to improve research and business outcomes. Particularly to access valuable private data that was previously inaccessible and for better auditability for data and algorithm execution. The future is AI with Ocean Protocol allows people to buy and share data securely while preserving privacy.
    
   