MCIS6273 Data Mining (Prof. Maull) / Fall 2021 / HW3a
This assignment is worth up to 10 POINTS to your grade total if you complete it on time.
Points Possible Due Date Time Commitment (estimated)
10 Sunday, November 14 @ Midnight up to 3 hours
• GRADING: Grading will be aligned with the completeness of the objectives.
• INDEPENDENT WORK: Copying, cheating, plagiarism and academic dishonesty are not tolerated by
University or course policy. Please see the syllabus for the full departmental and University statement on
the academic code of honor.
OBJECTIVES
• Learn about the Human-in-The-Loop (HITL) concepts through a candid and practical podcast discussion
• Learn about the ethics of AI through a paper on practical and ethical considerations of Food Recommender
Systems
WHAT TO TURN IN
You are being encouraged to turn the assignment in using the provided Jupyter Notebook. To do so, make a
directory in your Lab environment called homework/hw3a. Put all of your files in that directory.
Then zip that directory, rename it with your name as the first part of the filename (e.g. maull_hw2_files.tar.gz),
then download it to your local machine, then upload the .tar.gz to Blackboard.
If you do not know how to do this, please ask, or visit one of the many tutorials out there on the basics of using in
Linux.
If you choose not to use the provided notebook, you will still need to turn in a .ipynb Jupyter Notebook and
corresponding files according to the instructions in this homework.
ASSIGNMENT TASKS
(50%) Learn about the Human-in-The-Loop (HITL) concepts through a candid and practical
podcast discussion
We have talked about the important role humans play not only in the preparation and interpretation of models,
but also in the entire pipeline of the data science process.
To drive that point home, we will listen to a 22 minute podcast presented by the Banana Data Podcast title: “The
Importance of Human in the Loop AI With Christina Hsiao”. The podcast is a short, but interesting discussion of
HITL concepts in practice.
You can listen to the podcast here:
• https://banana-data.buzzsprout.com/300035/8803284-the-importance-of -human-in-the-loop-ai-withchristina-hsiao
Or you can get the MP3 directly from here:
• Direct MP3 download from BuzzSprout.com
§ Listen to the entire podcast and answer the questions below:
1. What is the definition of ML Ops according to Ms Hsiao?Including in your answer where the intersection of ML Ops.

Ans: Machine Learning Operations, which is the elaborate dance between mainly two functios data science and i.t.operations which has the same goal of running the system continuously keeping the model system running in peak form amidst this widly changing environment in a controlled and efficient way.

2. How does the analogy of baking versus cooking related to the conversation on ML Ops?

Ans: The analogy of baking versus cooking related to the conversation on Machine Learning Operations to one of those scenarios that you could automate to a tea baking whereas in cooking its more important to have more human in the loop to being checked  and balances by a human rather than a machine.


3. Provide information about the example given where when the “cook” or subject matter experts had to come in and manually validate model output. Include a discussion of cost benefit analysis against false negatives.

Ans: In the automation process a pipeline  is set to a model be built and would take in feedback from the subject matter experts alomst on a daily basis maybe 5 ,10, 15 different accounts to look into manually based upon the cost of the teams time money and effort cost benefit analysis and feed the information back into the model to adjust it and iterate along the way.
 - discussion of cost benefit analysis against false negatives:
If miss a fradulent activity there is a loss of a potential client or a loss of time  and  effort the internal team needs to spend making things right and can assign a cost to that on the flip side knowing the amount of time and person hours spend to investigate each of these cases and transactions. we also have an understanding of how much we're investing in the process so in the financial example where one is surpassing another and if we need to have more human intervention and human looing a these different types of transactions to counterbalance the losses that are being made by the false negatives .

4. What was one of the problems Christina identified in oil and gas domain expertise? How is it being addressed?

Ans:One of the problems in their industry was that their expertise was aging out of the workforce. These people were geological engineers and they have the domain knowledge and they are retireing.They have got bunch of people coming out of school who are taking over who dont have 30 years to learn the gun insticnt still they try to figure out ways to encode that kowledge into the pipelines so that you dont need that veteran to make the decision.

5. Christina argues against “humanization” in MLOps. What does she suggest instead?

Ans: Christina argues saying humans dont have time to sit there and watch for input drift. Instead she suggest the system can set up a threshold that says if its more than five percent from reference based  line then send her an alert and now the human the tap on the shoulder thats been automated. Its not replacin the human but they dont have to spend a ton of time with routine mundane and monitoiring.

6. According to Christina, what is the goal of MLOps in the Data Science landscape?

Ans:  If  Machine Learning Operations is done properly freeing up the data science team to go on to greener pastures and innovate on new things. The goal is really to not engineer out the human from this loop  its to make it less mundane less routine less overhead to manage in production and to have though about all the things that could go wrong before they go wrong to have that risk strategy in place. So the Machine Learning Operations should know the financial impact and the reputational imapct of the models are biased to have considered those qustions before going live.
7. Write two or three sentences about your reaction to this podcast.

Ans: In my point of view I agree with christina that all the Machine Learning Operations need to be innovated with new things and the automation part sholud be done to fewer the work of human. Thus the human from this loop  its to make it less mundane less routine less overhead to manage in production.


(50%) Learn about the ethics of AI through a paper on practical and ethical considerations of Food
Recommender Systems
We have tangentially talked about the ideas of data privacy and the concerns around how, as data scientists, it
is important to apply a lens of how data might be used and what privacy concerns need to be considered when
working with data, especially personal, human data.
You will read a recent and interesting paper about the ethics of recommendation systems for food recommendation.
You may already have experience with smartphone applications which make all kinds of recommendations to you,
from which pair of socks to buy on Amazon, what route to take on a drive to shop at your favorite electronics store,
to what music to listen to. There are serious issues to consider around these recommendations, not the least of
which are transparency in how recommendations were made, what data were used to make those recommendations,
and if there are biases in the recommendations which present an unfair advantage to the winning recommendation
over alternatives. Consider the recent concern around Amazon bringing out their “house” branded products
which compete directly with other products on the same platform (see the 2019 Wired article “Amazon Doesn’t
Favor Its Own Brands—Except When It Does” by Glad Edelman for a more detailed exploration of the problem
https://www.wired.com/story/amazon-gating-private-labels-antitrust/).
These issues are complex and nuanced, and this paper by Karpati, et al, 2020 is an interesting exploration into the
realities of the AI-driven world we are rapidly accepting, choosing or being forced into. Whichever the case, as a
data scientist, you should be aware of the issues involved, as they may very well come up in your work.
Please read:
Daniel Karpati, Amro Najjar, and Diego Agustin Ambrossio. 2020. Ethics of Food Recommender
Applications. In Proceedings of the AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society (AIES ’20).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 313–319. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/33
75627.3375874
You can find the pre-print PDF (does not require access to ACM Digital Library) here:
• https://arxiv.org/pdf/2002.05679v1.pdf
Or if you have access to ACM/DL you can get it here:
• https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3375627.3375874
§ Read the entire paper and answer the questions below:
1. Why is conceptual vagueness a problem in the ethical guidelines reviewed by the authors?

Answer:  Conceptual vagueness is not only present across the different guidelines, but it could also be found within the same proposed guideline. While these broad ethical guidelines can be seen as an important first step towards a thoroughly considered practice for ex-ante regulation, ex-post adjudication and, hopefully, for the creation of actual AI technologies, still, the principles articulated in these guidelines should be situated in the actual context in order for them to be operationally applicable.Thus, conceptual vagueness is good in theoretical world, but it is not good areal-
time world as it is not close to be applicable in real world.

2. What are the eleven ethical principles the authors identify as important concepts in any ethical framework?
Answer:  The eleven ethical principles the authors identify as important concepts are

    1)Transparenc.2)Justice and Fairness.3)NonMaleficence.4)Responsibility.5)Privacy.6)Beneficence.7)Freedom &   Autonomy.8)Trust.9)Sustainability.10)Dignity.11)Solidarity.
    
3. What is IoF? Please detail as many components of IoF as identified in the paper.

Answer: Internet of Food (IoF) .Generally,IoF as a concept was envisioned as sophisticated communications and digital services between machines, consumers and companies through sensorisation to provide information about nearly all food ingredients and products.

* IoF ranges from monitoring and executing steps in the food production via the combination of advanced sensory applications, advanced methods for collecting and interpreting data, and automation to the creation of digital information platforms based on which AI systems can give personalised recommendations to the consumer.
* IoF is not limited to food recommender systems and therefore the proposed ethical architecture hardly brings us any closer to our goal than the general ethical guidelines.
* IoF architecture is visualised as a circle from Privacy that leads to Transparency making Education possible, which enables Negotiability that brings Agency which resolves Responsibility that leads back to Privacy

4. How do the authors say Food Recommender Systems (F-RS) are different from other recommender systems, and why do the authors think that difference is important? Do you agree with their critique?

Answer: Yes, the F-RS (food recommender systems) of today,conspicuously differ in one feature from other RS, namely, they
don’t build on users’ personal data or behaviours and recommend personally tailored solutions based on that. This is an important distinction and clearly demonstrates the alternate motivations behind these types of applications. 
- The promise behind RS is that the user will be directed towards their interest, which is inferred from their actual customs provided in some form of data. 
- The motivation behind F-RS of today (as has been demonstrated by the ones popular in the European market) is helping consumers to choose products based on some shared preferences mostly defined by their creators.

5. In terms of autonomy and personal identity, the authors mention the concept of “informed consent” when entering a business relationship. Explain why you agree or disagree with their statement that “[a customer relationship] should entail the awareness about how the other party is compensated for the services they provide”. You should be as descriptive as possible when stating your position. Use examples from the paper if you wish.

Answer: I agree, when entering a business relationship should entail the awareness about how the other party is compensated for the services they provide. Especially in the context of F-RS(P-) which explicitly build on shared ethical values, it seems an indispensable part to understand how the advertised ethical agenda and the compensation of the service provider can be pursued coherently. F-RS(P-) with an anti-consumption agenda, for instance, that get compensated through advertisements on their platform should inform their users on how these seemingly conflicting goals are resolved.
     
6. Why do you think defining the non-ethically motivated parts of an algorithm (section 3.5.2) are important in theory, but difficult to actually implement.

Answer: We find also crucial to make the recommending algorithm explicitly understandable.This should happen at least by fulfilling two criteria:

* Declaring all other objectives relevant to the recommendation by defining their purpose for the user and their consequences.

* Declaring how these variables are affecting the process of recommendation, showing how the optimisation happens between the implemented ethical agenda and the further objectives.

Therefore fulfilling the ethical desideratum to avoid opacity in F-RS(P-) are twofold: first, how the ethical agenda is understood and implemented following the scheme we proposed, and second,to explain the non-ethical part of the algorithm that affects the outcome as discussed above.

7. In section 3.7 “Polarisation and Social Manipulabilty”, the authors suggest that “Attracting as many users as possible behind an ethical agenda seems easier if the stress is put on a catchy buzzword” . . . and “. . . we need stakeholders who truly commit to their values and promote their intrepretation and implementation”.How might transparency improve the gap that emerges between what companies say about their product and what is true in what they are actually doing? Could you conceive of a way blockchain technology might help?

Answer: The facts that these applications are being adopted by millions of users make their recommendations impactful on both producers and consumers unlike traditional consumerist magazines these applications make the relationship between consumers and the market less abstract since they are accessible virtually all the time, and in order to operate real-time, and provide information, assessment and recommendation on hundreds of thousands of products, these applications tend to make a compromise between scientific logic.

- Example: The score and assessment attributed to food items are not always grounded on scientific truth, technological uncertainty and the information of products in the databases might be erroneous or incomplete with the  consumer concerns (e.g.costs and product availability)



8. List the product assessment criticisms the authors lodge against the Yuka application. Why do they feel the inclusion of “organic” as a criterion for recommendation is problematic?

Answer: Yuka automatically gives an extra 10% score to any organic product despite the fact that the positive effects of organic products on the human health are still subject to scientific debate. Even more concerning the absolutely arbitrary manner they combine these factors:
* 60% for Nutriscore, 30% for the existence of certain additives and 10% if the product is organic.
According to our scheme, this should be made clear for the user namely,the natural persons behind this calculation? What makes them reliable? and Are they qualified to make such an assessment? .
Everybody is entitled to their opinion, surely, but if the methodology of assessing ’healthy’ products is based on the hunches of ’Grandma Gourmet’, then it should be duly noted.

9. Why are the crowdsourced databases that Yuka rely on a problem for the authors?

 Answer: Yuka relies on crowdsourced databases whose main source of data is the nutrition facts written on the product packing. Yet, these databases are subject to erroneous and outdated input. In addition, food manufacturers are allowed to change the ingredients (with certain restrictions, for instance, adding allergens) of their products without necessarily changing the barcode of the product. Consequently, in some cases, the score given by Yuka can be either imprecise or outdated. For these reasons, the ethical desiderata we outlined.
 
10. Explainability and Fairness are two issues that the authors criticize Yuka heavily for. What do you think the Yuka designers could do to address the authors’ concerns?

 Answer: According to Points Explainability and Fairness these should be explained to the user, particularly because considering Yuka does not give recommendation above score 50.Therefore,the user cannot even figure out which product would be the ’healthiest’ according to Yuka’s classification. Based on recent debates regarding the ethics of recommender systems, the guidelines proposed by private and international committeesand on the latest research on food recommender systems, this article investigates the relevant ethical framework for such systems, proposes the ethical desiderata, argue for multi-stakeholder approach to food recommender systems, and point out future research directions.
 
11. Write a three to five sentence reaction to this paper. Include in your reaction whether you thought the authors were objective? Did they clearly communicate the goals of the paper? Were they successful in accomplishing those goals? Do you agree or disagree with one or more points in the paper? How would you suggest improvements to the paper if you were a reviewer or reader?

Answer: This paper brings the  principles for beneficial AI and an existing domain of AI applications by narrowing down their interpretation by specifying the context. Yes, the authors were objective to  distinction between
F-RS(P-) and F-RS(P+), which helped us define the relevant and empirically meaningful ethical desiderata for the former in the spirit that it will be understandable from both the angles of regulators and designers.

 - Did they clearly communicate the goals of the paper?
Yes, the explaination was clear enough to explain the goals of this paper and they were sucessfull in bringing up the points to explain the fairness of methods to the authors concern.This paper, however, has its limitations, which points to further research: First, creating an implementable multi-stakeholder architecture for FRS(P-) that complies with these ethical desiderata. Second, how the emerged ethical desiderata can be implemented to our existing legal frameworks, in other words, how these ethical values could be translated to ex-ante regulations and how ex-post adjudications could cluster certain type of cases, and what legal tools are applicable to "fine-tune" the differences among the cases clustered together.

